The Li-Wei feud has unsettled the court.
If you now intend to stand apart
and form your own power,
would that not throw the situation
into deeper chaos?
A man
does not scale another's wall.
A minister
does not bend with shifting winds.
That is all I will say.
Zheng! Zheng!
Are you in there?
Zheng, Mrs. Zhao says
to come home for lunch.
Little miss, why not step inside
and sit a while?
I would never step into a villain's house.
Thank you, Scholar Sir.
Why do you call me Scholar Sir?
My sister said
your carriage is filled with books.
I shall not disturb you further.
Pretend I was never here.
Let's go.
So, he truly is Marquis Wu'an?
He only crushed a teacup.
Is that all the legendary Marquis
amounts to?
His internal force
is far stronger than before.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
FAN'S BRAISED MEAT
Changyu.
Qian.
Covered in blood and grease all day,
and somehow you're still glowing.
Get in. I'll take you home.
It's fine. I can walk back.
Normally, I would let you,
but tonight, there were
too many banquet orders. I kept you late.
It's dark. I won't be at ease
letting you walk alone.
Get in.
I can handle the rest. You go on ahead.
All right. I appreciate it.
Come out.
-Marquis.
-Marquis, forgive us. We arrived late.
BLOODCLAD CAVALRY GUARD XIE WU
BLOODCLAD CAVALRY GUARD XIE QI
Rise.
How many of you came?
Only Xie Qi and I.
We feared being followed.
We brought no other guards.
Marquis, thank heaven you are unharmed.
Xie Yi and Xie San
died because of me.
We brothers swore an oath.
To protect you with our lives.
Even death we would accept.
No man of the Xie clan
will fall without reckoning.
The brothers in camp await your return.
Wei Xuan is running rampant.
He struts through the ranks
daily like a peacock.
The men can hardly stop themselves
from feeding him to the wolves.
Let him preen.
Soon enough,
a bloody clash with Prince Changxin
at Chongzhou cannot be avoided.
For now, securing grain stores
is paramount.
The court refuses to release provisions.
Wei Xuan, obeying
Chancellor Wei's command,
plans to levy grain locally.
Sixteen years ago,
the Xie army suffered defeat at Jinzhou
because supply lines failed.
I will not repeat that mistake.
Wei Xuan is hungry for glory.
If he falls to Changxin,
it will not surprise me.
We may even turn that to advantage.
Let him lead his incompetent men as bait.
Draw Changxin south.
When the moment comes,
I have my own strategy.
So you will not return to camp yet?
You return first.
Spread word of my death.
The wider it spreads, the better.
Understood.
-Go.
-Yes.
All the braised pork sold out today.
-The pig's head was especially popular.
-Really?
Mrs. Wang said
her daughter is getting married.
She ordered half a pig from me.
That means more work for you.
Work like that, I welcome.
Who… Who are you?
I'll go check.
Qian, stay inside.
I can handle this.
Take her down.
Who sent you? Was it him?
After all these years,
why won't he leave me alone?
What are you doing?
Help. Someone help!
Changyu, watch out!
You can't just leave me!
That voice sounds familiar.
-Guo Dali.
-Guo Dali?
Mrs. Fan.
Heroine Fan.
Your Ladyship!
I just made a foolish mistake!
You have crossed me again and again.
Hardly a one-time mistake.
Someone paid us.
They hired us to kill you.
-Who?
Who…
Who!
Changyu!
Might as well sell you both.
Go to hell!
Bastard. If you dare, face me!
Fine! You're going to get it.
Changyu!
I will…
Changyu. Changyu.
Are you hurt?
XIGU ALLEY
Yan Zheng, did you run into Changyu?
What happened?
-She was drugged. Bring cold water.
-All right.
Zhao, hurry. Help me.
Hello, sir.
What in the world is this?
What?
My backside. It hurts.
Hurts?
-Where does it hurt?
-My backside.
Your backside what?
It hurts.
Good. I wish it hurt worse.
You worthless scum!
Spare me.
Please spare me.
I'm not a Qingfeng Stronghold bandit.
At Yixiang Restaurant, those women…
No, those two ladies humiliated me.
I only meant to scare them a little.
Guo Dali!
You had your grudges with Fan Erniu.
And now you take it out
on his poor daughter?
-Have you no shame?
-My backside…
Enough.
Must you keep shouting?
Do you want the whole roof torn down?
It hurts! It hurts!
Scare them?
You drugged her!
What exactly were you planning?
I was going to knock them
unconscious first…
And then?
Speak!
Break her meridians…
And then?
Sell her into the mountains…
Stop!
Yan, enough. There is no need
to stain your hands further.
His punishment will be decided
-by the authorities.
-Authorities?
If I had not been there tonight,
Changyu would already be dead!
You have confessed.
No one could save you now!
My enemy is mine to deal with!
-Stop.
-I beg you!
Yan Zheng.
Do not kill him. He isn't worth it.
Are you hurt?
Lie back down.
Go back to sleep. I will not kill anyone.
All right, no more tears.
I'm stronger than an ox.
See?
Hands fine. Feet fine.
Stop crying.
Changyu…
Will you fetch me a basin of hot water?
All right.
How is your head? Does it still ache?
Anywhere else uncomfortable?
If you had killed someone for me
and ended up in prison,
that would hurt far worse.
Promise me.
Do not risk yourself.
Do not worry.
I won't.
Ms. Yu, all doors and windows are secured.
The fire buckets are filled.
The men are rotating watch every hour.
Anything else?
Ms. Yu, is war coming?
Tomorrow, add two more locks.
There are already double doors
and three locks.
You want more?
Yes. Add another.
And reinforce the door frames with iron.
Understood.
-Mother.
-Have you been good today?
Very good. I didn't go outside.
I finished all the homework you left.
Such a good child.
Then tomorrow,
we must be just as good, all right?
LUYUAN
Excellent move. Such--
I didn't expect you to play Go, An Xu.
I know a little.
Then indulge me in a match.
Of course!
Gladly.
That was satisfying.
We must play again tomorrow.
I would like that.
Headmaster.
When I was young,
I once read part of a Go manual.
Hidden Principles of Qi.
I heard the Imperial Library
houses over 10,000 volumes.
I searched for it,
but never found it.
That book is not in the Imperial Library.
However, the Gongsun family collection
does hold a complete copy.
It belonged to my grandfather.
It is not for lending.
A gentleman does not covet
another's treasure.
Anyone would treasure something this rare.
Still,
though it cannot be lent,
I could transcribe
the remaining pages for you.
Thank you, Headmaster.
WISDOM THROUGH STUDY
A ruler must shoulder the duty
of protecting the common people.
To Her Highness, Empress Dowager An.
The newly admitted student An Xu
is in truth the Grand Princess
in disguise.
I have confirmed this
and dare not conceal it.
I respectfully report this
for Your Highness's judgment.
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
Qian.
Qian?
Where is she?
Changyu.
You nearly scared the life out of me.
You told me to come, then vanished.
I was about to head out.
Come, sit.
Are you feeling better now?
Much better.
You kept sending medicine and food.
I've practically grown plump.
And you?
Were you shaken that night?
If it lingers in your heart, speak it.
Do not let fear fester.
Shaken? I've seen far worse.
You think a thug with a stick
can frighten me into an early grave?
Your husband, though…
That night, he was terrifying.
He is not usually like that.
He just cannot bear anyone hurting me.
Yes, yes.
Devoted husband and wife.
Enough to make people jealous.
I almost forgot.
Take these.
These days are unsettled.
We must learn to protect ourselves.
What… What is it?
Cornus water.
I used larger bottles this time.
It ran dry the other night.
Now you will not be short.
Get it in their eyes,
and they'll be blind three days straight.
Cornus can do that?
So that was what you used on Guo Dali.
By that logic,
garlic, ginger, and peppercorns
could all work the same.
Too bad Guo Dali got off lightly.
Headmaster?
Something came back to me.
Once, in the rain pavilion,
we played Go without ever meeting.
Move after move.
Breaking and rebuilding the game.
Who has been playing here?
It seems the game isn't over yet.
I'll play here.
Is that so?
Then it was truly a meeting of minds.
White has played!
Look.
Your Highness, someone
may be inviting you into the game.
Perhaps I intruded upon another's board.
I too have a friend.
An exceptional player.
Yet
we have never met.
How curious.
Go reveals a gentleman's heart.
Though I never saw the other person,
I could glimpse their mind
through the game.
Playing without meeting
is like holding a conversation.
It seeks only that moment
of silent understanding.
Then how do I compare
to this unseen friend?
Though we have never met,
your skill surpasses hers.
Once I obtain your copy
of Hidden Principles of Qi,
my play will rise again.
Perhaps
I shall meet him very soon.
Very well. When that day comes,
we must play a proper game.
Mr. An.
Mr. An, someone has arrived from home.
From home?
Your Highness.
I have come by order to escort
Your Highness back to the palace.
VIRTUE THROUGH LEARNING
The Empress Dowager somehow learned
that you exchanged identities with Mr. An
and came to Luyuan Academy to study.
What did she say?
Mr. An has been confined
on Her Highness's orders.
Her Highness was deeply angered by this.
Your return to the capital
was set for next month.
It's been moved up.
You leave for the palace today.
Your Highness.
I have ordered the rear garden sealed.
No one will detect your departure.
The academy will simply announce
that An Xu withdrew for personal reasons.
All faces remain intact.
You have handled it with care, Nanny.
I only do my duty.
Your Highness, please.
Abbot,
was it you
who played Go with me these past weeks?
I did not expect
that my unseen opponent
would be a young lady.
Of course.
Only the monks reside daily
at Guangling Temple.
I imagined too much.
To play across distance in that pavilion,
perhaps there is fate
binding the two of you.
Why sever that connection, Mr. Gongsun?
I am but a wandering scholar,
with nothing to my name.
How dare I entangle a young lady.
It was one thing
when I didn't know she was a woman.
Now that I know,
it would be improper to continue.
Something came back to me.
Once, in the rain pavilion,
we played Go without ever meeting.
Move after move.
Breaking and rebuilding the game.
I too have a friend.
An exceptional player.
Yet we have never met.
How curious.
Perhaps
I shall meet him very soon.
Your move.
Do you know why I came back?
The road ahead is long.
I only wish that Your Highness
returns safely to the capital.
You knew who I was.
I learned it only days ago.
But when you first arrived,
I already knew you were a woman.
Who is An Xu?
-An Xu.
-He's calling you.
An Xu, my student.
Such striking features.
Such bearing.
Such composure.
I did not expect
you to be the Grand Princess.
I came to this academy for someone!
Your Highness's favor brings great honor
to the entire academy.
This is the copy
of Hidden Principles of Qi
I promised to transcribe.
Please accept it
as a parting gift.
Headmaster. Headmaster.
It is so late. Why have you not turned in?
An Xu asked me to pass this to you.
So it was her.
This match of Go…
I did not merely lose.
I was utterly defeated.
POISE AND REFINEMENT
THE SUTRA OF THE ORIGINAL VOWS
OF KSITIGARBHA BODHISATTVA
Your Highness.
Ever since returning from Hejian,
the Princess has refused
to leave her chambers.
She scarcely touches her meals.
It would seem Gongsun Yin
holds no affection for Her Highness.
If the Princess learns this,
she will be devastated.
Gongsun Yin wrote personally.
His words were sincere.
I admit, that surprised me.
But with the Princess's temperament,
she will not surrender
her heart so easily.
She is still young.
She does not yet understand
the entanglements of court and family.
EMPRESS DOWAGER AN, MOTHER OF QI SHU
The Gongsun name carries prestige,
but they are not a suitable match.
Your Highness speaks truly.
How then shall we persuade the Princess?
Grand Tutor Li enjoys
a sterling reputation at court.
His eldest grandson, Li Huai'an,
has earned merit in the northwest.
I hear he is both capable
and refined in bearing.
He would make a proper match.
Perhaps we should arrange for him
to meet Shu.
I will see to it at once.
Shu,
do not blame me.
You may resent me now,
but one day, you will understand.
XIGU ALLEY
THREE DAYS LATER
An audience with the Grand Princess?
Grandfather must still be determined
to counter Wei Yan.
He likely wishes to secure my footing
among the imperial clan without delay.
In the end,
it is but factional maneuvering.
It does nothing
for the realm's stability
or the people's welfare.
My lord,
the Grand Tutor is your grandfather.
Perhaps you could reason with him.
I may not grasp the intricacies of court,
but at the frontier,
whether it was General He
or Marquis Wu'an…
TO BE OPENED BY ELDEST GRANDSON HUAI'AN
…though aligned with the Wei faction,
they were men who bled
without hesitation for the border.
Grandfather has summoned me.
I must return.
At least
Marquis Wu'an still lives.
As long as he stands,
the northwest will not descend into chaos.
The air is dry.
TOFU
Be aware of fire.
Lin'an truly is a fine place.
If ever the world grew quiet,
I would not mind living
like drifting clouds and idle cranes.
Mother, Sister is here to play!
Has Lord Li truly
gone back to the capital?
I saw him on my way home.
He said the matter
with Guo Dali is settled.
He must report to Lucheng,
then proceed to the capital.
Did he say anything else?
He asked when my parents
first came to Lin'an.
Asked if I remembered
anything from 16 years ago.
I was only 2. How could I recall clearly?
I would need to ask Grandfather.
Changning, roasted chestnuts!
Changyu, Zheng, look who has returned!
BE KIND, DO GOOD
Zheng did not lie.
The falcon truly came back!
You are quite skilled at taming birds.
Or perhaps you fed it too well.
It could not bear to leave.
Is it that greedy?
Since you know the way home,
I will not lock you in a cage anymore.
Fly as you please.
It looks like me.
Was it born of Mother too?
Yes.
You're both such little munchkins.
Here.
The dream beneath
the rain pavilion has ended.
How obscure.
Marquis, Li Huai'an
has indeed left Lin'an.
Mr. Gongsun's diversion was masterful.
I am curious what method he employed.
One more thing. At the border
of Yanzhou and Chongzhou,
bandits have intercepted military grain.
Wei Xuan is enraged.
He has ordered them
eradicated within ten days.
What bandits would dare
repeatedly plunder official grain?
It must be Prince Changxin
pulling strings.
Wei Xuan is reckless.
He may soon find himself ensnared.
Continue monitoring all intelligence
regarding provisions.
Yes.
Marquis, it grows late. You should rest.
Lest the Marchioness…
grow… suspicious.
My tongue outruns my thoughts.
Spilled what was in my heart.
Let's go.
-Candied hawthorns.
-Come have a look.
This one.
EAT, DRINK, AND BE MERRY
Ms. Yu, Zhao Xun
from Lin'an Grain has reserved
a private room upstairs.
He is hosting a distinguished guest.
They ordered our finest wine and dishes.
Very well. Make the preparations.
-I shall attend to them shortly.
-Understood.
TIANYU ROOM
Mr. Zhao!
Your visit brings great honor
to our humble Yixiang Restaurant.
ZHAO XUN, OWNER OF LIN'AN GRAIN
Ms. Yu, you flatter me.
How fares business today?
Business is going quite well.
And this esteemed guest?
Mr. Qi from the capital.
He deals in grain.
We are discussing trade.
QI MIN
A distinguished guest from afar. I see.
Do the dishes suit your taste?
If you require anything, do not hesitate.
The wine and dishes are excellent.
Especially this Snow-Cleared Broth.
This is our house specialty.
It is my honor to serve
our esteemed guests.
Allow me to raise a cup.
If you need anything further,
please call for me.
Ms. Yu, one moment.
Mr. Qi, you may not know,
I haven't been running a shop
in Lin'an for long,
but Ms. Yu has managed
her establishment for years.
Her connections are extensive.
If you seek partnership,
you'd do well to seek Ms. Yu's guidance.
And what sort of trade
do you have in mind, Mr. Qi?
I know little of grain myself,
but should you wish to collaborate,
I can introduce
several reputable merchants.
You are most seasoned
in the ways of hospitality.
You clearly know many people, Ms. Yu.
Yixiang welcomes guests
from every quarter.
Harmony yields prosperity.
In business,
it never hurts to know more friends.
All in pursuit of trade. Understandable.
Please enjoy yourselves.
I must attend to other guests.
Of course, Ms. Yu.
‎NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
‎IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang